unaccessible.
They were destroying books.
So what was your added, you know, I want to... So I began to learn at the commission meetings the necessity of trashing the Old Main as this dark, terrible building that really had no, had practically no books in it.
I'll never forget the meeting where Dowlin, and I told you how he came into this meeting, his plan
to save money now and make up for the deficit was to cut more staff.
Well, he didn't mean the top staff, of course, but the cut staff, typical CEO mentality.
But I hear, then there's this incredible farewell to Dowling meeting,
It would be worth your getting, have you talked with Peter, last name, Peter Warfield?
Peter, it's essential you talk with him because he got tapes of all the commission meetings.
I was buying them for a while, too, and I was, as a matter of fact, looking in my room for where I'd put those of them that I had bought.
At the meeting where Dowlin finally realized he was going to have to go.
Agnos, Art Agnos, who I have such honor for.
He's a wonderful, wonderful representative.
I knew him, you know.
He went to Bates.
I went to Bates College.
Oh, uh-huh.
I didn't know him well.
He was a year or two ahead of me, but... What's the name of the other college besides Bates?
Bates, Bowden, and Colby are the three colleges in Maine.
Yes, uh-huh.
I went to Bates, which is... Uh-huh, yeah.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Well, at the farewell, every commissioner...
And Art Agnes came from Washington for it, and he told about the great visionary that unfortunately, because, and he's quoting Dowling's excuses, his weakness is that he's not really a finance man.
That was what he said.
Anyhow, so Agnes talks about the vision he had for this great new library,
and so forth and so on.
He's in Washington.
His wife is on the commission.
Well, Sherry Agnos, I've often felt like asking her, because I'm pretty sure she did, didn't you ever bring your kids besides to the wonderful neighborhood library on Petrero Hill, because they lived on Petrero Hill.
Well, I know, because one of my...
Somebody I know very well, you know, was a neighbor, and she was using, before he was ever mayor, before he went to Washington.
But anyhow, she refers to the old Maine as out of the dark ages.
This is Agnos' wife?
Sherry Agnos, who's on the Library Commission, who I would have expected.
There were no libraries in the Dark Ages, I don't think.
Well, there were certain libraries in the monasteries, in the monasteries.
That's an oxymoron.
And there were certain, you know, but when it came to a public library, there wasn't even literacy.
Very few people had literacy.
Literacy.
What a horrible thing to say.
What a horrible thing to say, actually.
Well... That the library was out of the dark ages.
Yeah, well, anyhow, when you think of all the people who used and got so much out of that library to refer to it as out of the dark ages, well, anyhow, they did not have...
No, I'm not remembering right that they didn't have public comment, because there were people who got up and many of the library staff, one of whom it turned out afterwards was not really saying what he thought, but had been asked to speak in support of Darwin.
a wonderful Filipino woman who comes and was so moved by how Dowland sat there.
This was not the one where he was defending himself, but where he knew he was on his way out.
And she spoke sorrowfully about how hard it must be for him, but that he was going to go on to something else, she was sure, and she wished him well, which was very nice.
But librarians got up and spooked, and now I remember that meeting.
One of them was so wonderful.
She's from one of the branch libraries, and she said, and she said, she said, you have nothing but contempt for us, she says.
Never in my, in all of my years, and I will be retiring in a few years,
Until you came, could I have imagined someone who is in charge of the library?
This is all on tape.
You have to get it from Peter.
I'll find it.
I'll call him, or I'll call you.
I'll get it from Walter.
Don't worry.
Walter.
But you have to get the incredible tape of that meeting.
God, I have thousands.
None of this is alphabetized.
Let's not worry about it right now.
All right, okay.
Anyway, it was absolutely heart-rending the way she spoke of the change in how she felt and how she hated to have anything to do, even to come into the new Maine, because she might...
There's just this treatment of the branch libraries and the branch librarians.
By the way, we have wonderful branch libraries and branch librarians.
What?
He wanted to close them.
I know.
Not all of them, but some of them.
But most of them.
Yes.
Well, you know, to him, you get into a car and you drive or maybe even have a chauffeur.
Everything's accessible.
You know, I really don't think he's—I may be faulting him.
Anyhow, he spoke about his son, the greatness of computers.
This was in his farewell address.
And I thought, well, if your son only watches the computer and does not read, he will not get into those schools you want him to get into because what the elite schools look for is somebody who can write a critical essay.
Yeah.
Amazing.
So let's, when you found out that books without, were just being dumped by the truckload.
Oh, well, part of me was so hurt, and I found out about it first when I went to the meeting of the, um, um, finance and, uh,
I suddenly can't remember.
Oh, by the way, here is also one of the earliest things.
We're going to stop pretty soon because it's gone over two hours.
Well, I have to... And I don't want to over-stay my welcome.
Well, what was it I was looking up that I had to find?
And I need to find what I, myself, the one thing that I wrote.
What did I say just before this?
I was looking for something.
Well, anyhow, we finally began to get articles in the paper, and then a lot of the, by the way, you probably have this, when he didn't talk about the strategic future, except in that very narrow term.
Oh, hell.
Well, I'll have to mail that to you too.
Probably may not even be in here.
Oh, there's that thing about the shocking thing.
You see, we should be, they should be sending books to the school.
They should supply the schools that don't have
libraries with books, and they should carefully select books that first and second graders might love, and that would bring them on to other books, and some of them should be, oh, this is, by the way, speaking of Thomas Wentworth Higginson, none of these books were in, but they said some of them were.
Oh, well, this is coolers on the public librarian books, which I understand, though it may... I don't know if it's true or not that he didn't write it.
Oh, this is that thing where we were trashed.
I've seen this, yeah.
Do you have that?
Yeah.
Well, you see, that was the attitude.
So holy was the library that they did not listen to the truth.
And some of it may have been us.
I was troubled in the beginning because it was confrontational when people got up to speak.
Of course, bit by bit.
Then we were cut down to three minutes.
Then the minutes themselves stopped being minutes.
That's the latest thing, you know.
And the last minutes, they would not identify anybody.
by name and i got up at the minutes and i said and i identified who the people were and i said their name should be there so first of all cooler as usual tried to shut me up and i didn't shut up but anyhow this is the latest thing that the minutes are not supposed to be instructive so he finally listened when one of the librarians under good and welfare
who followed me, as a matter of fact, pointed out that the minutes go out to the branch librarians who are not there that night because they're at the branch libraries, and what will they know about what happened at the commission meetings if this is what they are presented with?
Well, anyhow, I don't know what's going to happen because they already voted that they were not going to enlarge the minutes and put in names.
They were going to keep this.
We had a wonderful secretary who kept the most wonderful minutes.
Do you have copies of previous minutes?
Yes.
Well, you should just simply compare them with the last minutes and see how much information you got about what really went on.
The action is what you heard.
But as far as what the public said, you did not... Oh, Finance Operations and Building Committee.
That was where I first went.
Where I first heard about the books that were being dumped, and I heard to my horror that because books had a torn binding, or it was dog-eared, so I got up and I talked about
what it had given me as a writer about the book in which I read, El Otima Adios, that was in Hey, Sailor, What Ship?
And I'd been urged by the librarians to talk about my credentials to speak, because everybody else was, you know, had no, they were just, it was all ego, and some ego was involved.
But anyhow, so, but you know, people got very confrontational.
And I didn't understand it in the beginning, but then I realized what brings it on.
You're ignored, or you're put down, or you're ruled out of order.
I began to get confrontational, and I am confrontational now.
You should ask one of the librarians or somebody who is the way I spoke with Kulder after he talked about our having a special agenda.
and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, you know.
I quoted it back to him, and I also stood there asking him for what I knew I was not going to get, which was, well, here's some more.
Here was another instance.
I kept these damn things, so I'd write for them, and then I wouldn't get anything.
So is your fear that these books would be... This was in the beginning, you know, and then I thought,
it's true it's something that is really honestly honestly truly happening now what's happening is that the committees they haven't met for months and we only have the one commission meeting to go to so you know another thing i determined with nick baker today is he has a list of all these uh books that were last copies in the system 18 000 of them but then i said
Well, is there a list of all the books that they've gotten rid of?
No.
You realize that nobody even kept a record of the books or they have destroyed them all.
And I said, my God, it's like killing people and not even keeping the name of the person.
I mean, it's almost like a death camp metaphor in a way that you send books off to the dump and you don't even keep a record of the book that you had of the people once read and were nourished by it.
And he said it's an anti-intellectual attitude that they have.
And I think he's right.
I think it's so arrogant that not only do you dump the books, you don't even keep a record.
It's like at least keep the person's name.
Keep the memory of that book.
There is no reverence for the book.
I'm sorry to go off like this, but I've never seen anything like this in my life.
I became convinced
that Dowling really does believe that books are absolutely obsolete, that it's like that first little tremor of wonder.
What is this sign, you know, that ends with we do not know how long they'll be around?
Were there any books?
And that sign was at every bus stop.
It was your invitation to come to the new Maine.
So you talk about irony of ironies.
Yes.
Yeah, that was my first indication something was wrong.
Well, I never mentioned that to Spencer.
You mean this quote here we're talking about?
Exactly.
Well, what is the subtext here?
What is this saying to you when you saw this?
Well, to me, I didn't understand.
This is the invitation to the new Maine library?
and come and get them while they last.
But I kind of put it aside until I, you know, I thought, well, you know, it's just somebody's dumb idea.
Somebody found a quote in a thesaurus, maybe, but it's... Well, it doesn't say even... Well, no, I asked and I was told that this was in something that one of the Bloomsbury Circle...
One of Virginia's closest friends.
He wrote about the Victorians.
You know who I mean.
Not Lytton Strachey.
What?
Strachey?
No, it wasn't Strachey, so it wasn't him.
No, anyhow.
Well, I'll tell you.
Do you mind if I take a couple of photographs of you, by the way?
Is that okay?
A couple of what?
Photographs.
No, go ahead.
Well, we still have this nice light.
You can keep talking.
Good evening.
I'm Kendall.
Were there any books that you went in to find there?
That I was able to find?
That were not there, that particularly distressed you?
You mentioned Higginson, right?
Well, I was particularly distressed by...
Well, among other things, they had a wonderful collection, although Andrea tells me that she looked up and that they ordered more of them or were going to have more of them or something of that nature.
They had something called the Shakespeare Head Bronte, and they had every single letter in it.
First, they had the complete poems.
Then they had every single letter that any of those sisters ever wrote.
And that, along with reading Zachary, was where I discovered how much fun they made of Charlotte Bronte when she came to London, thinking she was at last going to have a literary company, and how...
Instead, poor little shriveled woman of genius.
How she would have given anything.
He is writing this to some young society girl.
To be as beautiful and attractive as you are.
How she would have given up all of her fame.
Uh-huh.
This is something else that got hell, and I don't know where the other half of it is, but I'm looking for my own piece, and I can't find it.
The piece I wrote before the Main Library ever opened.
Kathy Page's August 26 letter to Main Library staff.
Oh, this is when I was making up kits to send to people.
to tell them what was going on.
I also gave complete sets to the Library Commission members at one point of everything I had as things began to be proved that what was in this kit were true and they had been denying it or ignoring it or didn't know.
Well,
So I put in a lot of my life between the police commission and anyhow, this was, well, I guess that you got things like this, didn't you?
I think Walter's given me just about everything.
I'm sure.
Well, he probably didn't give you my thing that appeared that my tribute to the library.
That's quoted from in... I had it a second ago.
In the annual report that year, it's just something about this library, my comfort, my refuge...
My teacher, I've forgotten what it was, but anyhow, I had, but I'll find it.
It's somewhere.
You know what I think?
I think it's time for us to probably.
Madness.
Oh, it's in this report, but only that one sentence.
I'm going to, you give me one more minute, and then afterwards I'll begin to remember all the things that I never, you know, this is far more recent.
Oh, I hope you got all of these things from, from, from... I don't know yet.
Walter is going to send me this stuff, but look at this, huh, from the City Librarian.
What is, well, is that the one that, that has in, in the middle the, the other thing?
that I was looking for, The True University.
Yes, it's a collection of books.
There's wonderful quotes in it that are tributes to books.
That was from the thing I put before.
You should talk to... Oh, there's your quote right there.
What?
No, that's a small part of it.
I don't mean a small part.
It was only a couple of paragraphs.
But no, it wouldn't be March.
That was way back.
Anyhow, a lot of trees went, didn't they, and the material around it.
Here's another, Access, Discover, Empower through Multimedia, which is certainly a big help.
Well...
You would think I would have a whole file of my own thing.
Old library had more books, critics say.
Well, we finally began to crack through the wall of silence, and then came more and more revelations that couldn't be denied.
This was published by the library itself or by the Friends?
What?
This publication right here with your quote, who published this?
Well, that was published by the library itself.
That was the annual report, isn't it?
From the library, I should say.
So you were at this point considered an ally at this point.
No, it was before the new Maine opened, isn't it?
Look at the date.
Just a second.
I want to finish writing this down.
And that's probably why it's not in these files, except I dug it out at one point, because I was going to... This is the 1994-95 annual report.
Yes, uh-huh, yeah.
Well, I told you it was before the new Maine had ever opened, but it was... This is actually a...
One of the police files.
What's that doing in here?
Well, when I find it, I'll mail it to you.
Well, this is very good, too.
Look at this.
Take it.
Oh, I can take this?
Yes, take it.
Well, I have another one.
Oh, great.
That's great.
I have another one, yes.
You see?
And this was in spite of Dowling before he had his...
Can I take these, too?
Are you giving these to me?
Well, aren't you going to see him?
Yes, I am.
Well, listen, this guy is the only guy who's been going to Library Commission meetings for something like... Yeah, 20 years.
I don't think it's 20, but it's pretty close to 20.
He is a love.
And he is so literary.
When you get him in a car, he and I love exchanging...
Things we've memorized.
I've never had a chance to really sit down and talk with him.
Here he has.
You can, if you need these, call me.
I'm supposed to actually see him tonight.
Oh, well, that's going to be great.
Well, I should feed you something quick.
No, no, no.
Sandwich or something.
No, thanks.
Thank you.
Well, we sat too long.
I'm going to have to take a long walk.
I'm going to go back and call my wife and kids.
Well, I can give you a phone if you want, but privacy.
No, no.
Actually, I'm going to shut this off now.
I started to say the first thing that I'm going to say.
Okay.
Yeah, you see, not on the shelves, third floor, paging desk, missing.
This was, I think, my first indication.
That's Higginson.
uh no no no these this i think it is the um are the brontes are the brontes um oh that wonderful can i just see what titles they were that you were looking for well i don't think it even has the title thing it's just the numbers right oh i see sure yeah it doesn't say because in the beginning that's that's all that came up it didn't have the title but the brontes were missing what
But you were looking for some Brontes, and they were looking.
Yes.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Uh-huh.
Yes, and I, but they probably got torn.
They were old, and that meeting I got up, my heart was just breaking to think of them destroying that book in which I got the complete text of El Ultimo, Adios, because it, it was,
A little ragged.
Well, also, when you speak about some of the books I most love, those that we had a fire in this apartment, and I lost a lot of books.
Oh, I'm sorry.
But a lot were saved, too.
Some of the terrible shapes, some of the books I brought were in.
Some were coverless.
Some had pages missing and so forth and so on, but they were treasures.
Stanford has my volume of that, 1861 Atlantic.
I gave that to them.
You look tired, so I think I'm going to stop.
No, I'm not tired.
I'm very reflective.
I'm tired of sitting because I try to do standards.
We've got close to three hours of tape.
Poor you.
You have to only transcribe what's important.
I'm very selective, but I do listen to it.
And I do it on the computer, I have to say.
And I love your book.
You're kind.
And I'm sorry that there isn't a book about how poor people collect books.
I'd be glad to.
I'd like to know.
Well, I would be glad to donate some.
Well, who do you suppose buys in places like McDonald's?
They never classify their books.
It's a bookstore here.
You go in there.
Sometimes things are on the floor.
You pick up things from the floor.
Where are they?
I don't know where McDonald's moved to.
I'd have to look in the phone room.
M-C-D-O-N-A-L-D-A?
Yes.
It's a bookstore?
It's a used bookstore.
But for poor people.
It's in the... Well, no.
Book collectors go there, too, I'm sure.
I might go there.
That might be a story.
Show up, yes.
But that's where I got a number of books.
McDonald's.
at their old location.
But I think they're on the other side of it.
Don't forget, that book was about the collecting impulse.
And I would like to think that the greater theme there was also the preservation of knowledge.
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, of course.
Oh, I mean, it's a real book lover's book.
Thank you.
You know that.
It's just a
Well, I'm going to buy a copy.
I'm going to send you one, if you allow me.
I didn't carry any out here with me because they weigh about four pounds each.
What I would like very much to do is send you a copy.
Well, you know, I never realized I became a scholar out of the library until somebody told me when I gave my first silences talk.
I was so startled, and I still didn't believe it, and it took that night after MLA.
Adrian Rich was on that panel and spoke a very different way about books.
Why am I looking under MAC when I'm looking under bookstores?
Yes, please let me when I get home.
I've ordered some new books.
They should actually be here.
They should arrive on a way.
And, you know, the Bay Area is a book lover's... Oh, I know.
McDonald's.
I guess it's after the M.A.s.
I thought it was going to be ... Don't tell me ... These are the brand new books that I just got today.
They're certainly still in the ... Oh, books, new books, no wonder.
Where are they?
Here are books used and rare.
Okay.
Oh, how I'd love to go prowling around.
McDonald's book shop.
See, add under book tailors, retail.
Oh, they're on 48 Turk Street.
48 Turk.
How about their phone number?
Hmm?
What's their phone number?
Okay, their phone number is 673-2235.
Well, they used to be over on the other side of market on 3rd.
I'll take a look.
I'll go over there.
Yeah.
But anyhow, they were a wonderful place to buy books.
Did you say you had a lot of poor people going in there for books?
Well, there were people like me, and the location was a good location.
even for really poor people, because it was just half a block from what used to be Skid Row.
But no, but it was people who couldn't afford, you know, and there were times I wouldn't think of ourselves as really having a terrible economic problem at all, but there wasn't money.
If you have four kids and a lot of other things that require money, you know, books are a luxury.
But you could pick up secondhand books.
Who's McDonald's?
Is that name for a person?
Is McDonald's something?
It was the name of a person.
And I don't think the original McDonald's is alive anymore.
But maybe his kids are there.
I wonder if he had a philosophy about making books.
I never spoke with him.
That would have been a fascinating thing to have found out.
To find out what his motivation was.
Because it was really a wonderful... I've had so many books.
He had so many books.
He brought everything.
And I brought a complete set.
This was when I got my first money.
I brought a complete set of illustrated... of Dickens.
Short stories.
and some of the volumes too.
There were more time I'd show you some of the things that I picked up, but that was really very rare and very wonderful.
And remember what Somersuk Mom said about books as a writer.
He said, my heart sinks when I go to a bookstore
He said, I dread going into the library for that reason, too.
He says, when I see all those books there being sold for next to nothing, and think of what went into writing those books, and there they are practically.
He didn't use the word trash, but, you know, a word like that.
Outcasts.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
very poignantly about that.
I guess he was feeling nobody was ever going to read him once he died.
I don't know if people do, but he wrote a wonderful book about books and reading.
It's in that book.
Mom did?
Somerset Mom.
Yeah.
Well, I'm sure it's books in print or books out of print.
You probably know how to get books that are out of print.
Or it may be at McDonald's.
What's the title of it?
Books?
I don't remember what the... No, it's in his... He's writing about himself, his own life.
It's a memoir.
What?
Yes.
But it's not a skinny book.
He had a lot to say.
I'm going to leave you.
You'd better.
And you have been just so... Well, I'll send you...
What I wrote about the public library when I run across it, I know I have it somewhere.
Let's take a few pictures, if you don't mind.
Would you like to take a picture of me with Emily?
Yes, I would.
Absolutely.
That's Emily.
These were done by... Should I pull them?
Yeah, because I'm getting glare, and I do want to get Emily's picture in there.
Yeah, that's good.
That's fine.
Okay.
It's done by Barbara Swann.
It's beautiful.
And one of the four lipos is in the Emily Dickinson house.
Really?
It's not in black and white.
It's done in the color of her hair, like the sherry left in the glass.
Oh, this is nice.
Are you taking pictures of the entire cast of characters of the Muddites?
As many as I can, yeah.
You'll have already?
I don't know how many you can use, but to me it's documentation, you know, it's important.
During the time when the prisms are beginning.
Isn't it beautiful?
Float around.
Okay, we can open this again.
Maybe can I get a picture of you with your books too?
Just standing over here.
You mean just to prove that I'm a reader?
Well, that's nice.
I love pictures with books in the background.
Well, so do I. If it's a good one, we'll use it on my next book.
Oh, that would be great.
I'm serious.
I'm coming in tight.
Oh, that's a great picture.
Did you get Gutenberg?
Is that Gutenberg?
Yeah, that's Gutenberg.
And of course, you know what this is?
No.
In the days before the new kind of studying books from a computer.
Oh, that's a tray for type.
That's right.
My guy, after he was McCarthy'd off the waterfront and became...
I mean, after he became a printer.
What happened?
He became a printer.
Well, so that's why Gutenberg.
And so we got together, some of us, and gave that to him for our first day.
These are great.
I take a lot of pictures, if you don't mind.
Well, I certainly would not have been wearing leggings if I'd have known my... But it's cutting right here.
I'm not wearing... The leggings aren't showing up in the picture.
Oh, that's all right.
If they did, if we... Oh, that's a beautiful picture right there.
Well, look your hand up just as you were talking it up.
Because you know why there's some...
There's some wonderful light coming in that we're going to capture here.
I'm just going to try this one over there.
Oh, I'm going to shoot these available light.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's wonderful.
Excellent.
Well, you're the kind of photographer you take enough pictures so at least one of them has to come out.
And I don't take two hours to do it either.
No, you don't.
There are people who come in from Vanity Fair and I've published my photographs.
I'm looking for one really lovely picture, you know, like that with the prisms right there.
Are we got a copy of this to give you?
This is somebody, Irish herself, still worked
as a waitress, fell in love with Emily Dickinson's maid and the groundsmen who were Irish.
So she went to Amherst, gathered a crew, took them on a walking tour of where they'd lived, plus, of course, the cemetery that's
I guess 18 miles away.
They couldn't be buried where the Dickensons were buried.
And she made this book for the people who now work in the Emily Dickinson house.
She hand-shows this, The Art of Service.
She had them write what they do.
Here's the woman who cleans.
And she asked them if there was any way that they felt it was, you know, like a work of art.
And this one didn't say that, but this one did.
It is like art or poetry, and that you do it to the best of your ability, and it's what your passion and love is.
Speaking of, she gave all of them these books.
Carpenter, Cap... Carpenter, Maker.
Carpenter, Maker.
The job resembles art or poetry in some of the fabrication and blending in of mothing to match or make it look like others.
The landscape technician...
You know, speaking of photography.
And who's the woman who did this again?
Her name is Aoife Murray.
I'll be glad to see Rox and Samuel.
K-I-F-E-M-U-R-R-A-Y.
And she has four of my Emily Dickinson volumes now because...
She got a Jack Olsen labor scholarship.
That's what we did after Jack died.
It was mostly his family.
That is on his side.
We had some money, and they set up the scholarship at San Francisco State for somebody who had taken some classes.
The sunlight is beautiful.
If you don't mind.
That's wonderful.
Great.
So, and then she saved enough money to go to Amherst, finally, and look at all the places.
And the newspaper says 100 came, but the curator counted 140.
Anyhow, over 40 of the crowd were the direct descendants of Tom Kelly.
I'll send you a copy.
Very nice.
In fact, anyhow...
also participating and honored on the tour.
That's what she's like.
We're the men and women who currently clean and maintain the Dickinson Homestead House and grounds.
In fact, I asked them to write about their jobs, and I made hand-sewn books with their writing, titled Art of Service.
And anyhow, so they all... You know who I interviewed?
Isn't that a wonderful story?
Who you'd love for this?
I interviewed for this new book.
It was Murray Sendak.
Oh, yes.
Maurice is a lot like yourself in many respects.
You know, he never went to college.
He's totally the product.
And he is so... It made me think of it.
How did you feel when you went into Emily Dickinson's house?
Was there any kind of a communion that you felt with her when you went into the homestead?
Well, it was strange.
They have on display, they have her white dress, and it's kind of on a...
When I first went there, they had it on a kind of a dummy, you know, like what you sew on.
Last time it was on a hanger.
I don't know what made the change.
Maybe the new faculty people who lived in the house there.
But I was troubled by the fact that I felt it was really sacred why they had her
her writing desk where she had it and her chair there by the window.
And you looked out, of course, there have been some houses that have been built since, but still it's pretty much the same, a one or two-story place.
So you see the pine or a valley.
I mean, beyond that, you see the old, I thought about that view.
I was sad that it wasn't the same trees that were probably there when she was there.
They have this, as I said, in her colors, because Barbara did too.
Barbara gave me one of those, because I took her to the Emily Dickinson room, and we looked at the sewing fascicles, and at the bottom in that dresser drawer, because they have her dresser.
in the bottom are her herbarium.
Those girls who were the aristocracy of Amherst, you know, they would go out in the fields.
It was the time when Linnaeus was publishing articles in the Atlantic Monthly, and they would go out and they would pick flowers, and they would press them, and then they would write down the Latin name, but Emily was different.
She did write down the Latin name, but she also writes down the popular name, the name that people in Amherst called them by who didn't have the other language.
She was very young at the time.
When did you first discover Emily Dickinson?
Well, I read her first in anthologies.
You know, I got a lot out of anthologies.
The Untermyer Anthology.
There was a later Harriet Monroe one.
And those books would often appear, by the way, in secondhand stores.
Maybe they were used as text.
I don't know.
You know, maybe you had to buy them.
Was it something immediate, though, when you discovered her?
I mean, is this?
Well, they never published her complete poetry in the beginning, you know.
But I began to read everything.
And then, of course, when the letters came out,
and the complete poems, and the letters contained those beautiful fragments, if you've ever read the fragments.
I have a copy of the faxicals, actually, the Harvard, you know, the... Yes, uh-huh.
Which is quite wonderful.
Yes, well, I know it was put out that way.
And then the accident of meeting Theodora Ward, that was so wonderful.
But, well, she's often...
often on my lips or quoted in a letter.
When you talk about the printed book or the book, for her, the book really is not a printed book.
It goes back to her.
Of course.
She wanted to be published.
She wanted desperately to be published.
I mean, her poems about fame, well, are heartbreaking.
That's one of the great, you know.
But she was not of her time.
I mean, she speaks to us.
Well, as I said, let me take a second.
I think I know.
Maybe I don't know where the... We're next to nothing, because these are my... I was pressing autumn leaves at the time.
This is when I was first in the East.
This is his library of poetry and songs.
Whose library?
What?
Uh, Bryant.
Oh, Bryant.
William Cullen Bryant.
Oh, sorry.
Memoir of him, and this is a reprint of this book.
Look at this.
This book isn't quite... But you see, you look at this, but you don't see anything that would, you know, that would, who would even have a, have a, have a published her...
Well, here's, believe me, if all those in very young terms, just something from a library to borrow books, copy information, anything for a bookmark.
Now you have those lovely things that you can print in, but you read why these, why these... Look at these leaves.
Are these Massachusetts leaves?
They were, they were probably Massachusetts leaves.
See, I'm surprised even, I haven't looked in this, but it's interesting how
the different things, but, you know, if you read this, I'm telling you, she was, well, this, of course, is Tennyson in here, but by and large, it's not what, oh.
Look at all the book parks, all the, you really use your books, don't you?
I had a wonderful time at McDowell every once.
I was there for a terrible winter, and every morning I would read thorough.
Oh, this messy room.
This is his journals.
And look at all the bookmarks, the marks you have in there.
Yes, indeed.
All of these books have been great.
And this, by the way, you can see went through the fire, but it wasn't right where the...
Books everywhere, all with lots of money.
Well, books in every single room.
That's the journal of Henry D. Fuller.
Here's the Comrade in Illustrated Social Monthly.
It's also very, very, very fascinating book.
Anyhow...
Very disorganized, except I know where everything is, so they're not really disorganized.
It's all up here.
I know what you're saying.
Yeah, and pictures of writers I love.
Can you name some of them for me?
Well, how many can you name by looking at them?
There are some personal ones here, too, and a few that flipped over.
You certainly know who that is.
Well, of course, of course.
That's Walt Whitman, and that's...
Speaking of someone who never had college... That is Virginia, of course.
Yes, indeed.
Uh-huh.
That's not Jane Austen, of course.
Well, this is one of the... We were talking about her.
One of the Bronte sisters.
That's right.
And someone who wrote about them.
Um... Gaskell.
Elizabeth Gaskell.
Oh, that's Elizabeth Gaskell.
She's famous.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
This is someone I love very much.
Have you read Pat Barker's trilogy?
No.
You have to read Regeneration, The Eye on the Door.
It's a trilogy.
It's a literary trilogy.
Pat Barker.
It's also a historical one.
Well, I don't have that book.
You know who this is?
That's Emerson over there.
That gentleman I don't know.
I should know.
This is William Blake.
That's William Blake.
Yeah.
One of my great heroes.
Yeah, mine too.
Mine too.
It was just a wonderful biography you've been written about him.
Well, I have it.
It's wonderful.
My wife read it and basically read it to me.
And the illustrations in it are fantastic.
It's a wonderful, wonderful book.
Fantastic.
Yes, I spent money for it.
That's Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
You know who this is.
I can't see it.
That's Keats.
Oh, that's Keats.
Poor John Keats.
That's the death vest.
Maury Sendak has a death mask of Keats.
Oh, yes, and there's Emily.
There's that one photograph of her with the scratches that are in the dagger attack.
You listen to a lot of music, I gather.
That's sound, by the way, was it?
Well, it isn't only music.
We have a very rich couple of radio stations here, and there are a lot of writers, interviews, and
and so forth and so on, and here's, like everybody, their favorite.
I've got to take a picture of those books the way they are.
This is what?
I've got to take a picture of those books, if you don't mind.
That is priceless.
That's unbelievably good.
This is the desk of a reader.
Wow.
Oh, this is...
Oops, watch it now.
I don't want to break anything.
See, there's Kate and Shelley.
My daughter is having a book come out next month, and my granddaughter, we just had a book party.
Her book is entirely different, but this is... And that's made in America?
Yes.
Immigrant students.
Very, very...
I want to get another picture of this.
God, I didn't know.
It's slightly embarrassing.
No, it's not, because I have a chance.
It's a mess.
Everything's a mess.
I'm writing about readers, though, in their books, you see.
Yes, I see.
Well, all right.
That's a great, great picture.
There's your typewriter.
Well, if you're going to take...
Oh, that's great.
That's wonderful.
I can't tell you how much I enjoy this.
I don't know if you don't mind.
You'll call the writers.
Well, see, there's that big hole where Aoife Murray borrowed the rest of the letters.
These are some of the most exciting pictures I've taken.
This is one of my most favoritest books in the world.
Do you want to point to it again?
Would you point to it again?
Let us now praise.
Oh, would you point to it?
Now put your finger right on it, like you were right on the spine.
Yeah, the paperback has got most of the little inserts in it, because I take that with me.
That is one of my very favorite books.
Over here.
I have a first edition of that book.
Do you?
Yes.
Oh.
I have all of aging, everything we ever did.
And you know who this is?
It's Albert.
What?
That's Albert Camus, no?
Yes.
Where are the...
We're just a few months apart.
He was a member of the Young Communist League when I was a member of the Young Communist League, but the only other resemblance, I do revere him, most of all for his journals.
You've probably never read them.
I read all of Communism.
This, by the way, was the first Emily Dickinson book of poetry, and I... That right, Tina.
Take it out.
Look at that.
You're holding your Dickinson right now.
Well, across the deaf is on the pain.
Well, anyhow, Thomas Hardy is another one of my very beloved
writers, but most of all for his poetry.
How about one picture of you just standing?
See, here's .
Here's .
Well, I've never been so photographed, sir.
Well, this is exciting.
I'm with a real writer that I respect and admire, and you give me so generously of your time.
And it's free.
And yes, and you have to call your wife and kids.
Ah, that's okay.
They know I'm working.
You can say it was all that woman's fault.
No, I left and I crossed the border to Mexico for an abortion, but I was never out of the country otherwise until I was 80 years old.
Come on.
You were never out of the United States until 80.
Mm-hmm.
Why?
Well, for years it would have been pretty impossible.
You know, I was a mother and a grandma.
I had quite an age range in my kids, too, and then it never seemed to be the time between writing or other such matters, and finally
And a few years later, well, I went to England.
I was invited to England and to Sweden and Norway originally.
So I went.
And then I went on my own with Jack.
And then I went back again when I was invited for various things.
So much of the world I want to see.
But I went to China in 1984 in the women writers' delegation, and that was fascinating.
And then that same year, I got an invitation from the Soviet Union, who published Yanandiyo, by the way.
And they were going to publish Life in the Iron Mills.
They may have, but I never saw it if they did.
They weren't interested in telling me a riddle.
And that was fascinating, too, especially as Jack spoke some German and some Russian.
And there were a lot of Germans who were there.
But anyway, I haven't seen much of the world with my body.
Oh, yeah.
Two books, then.
Books have allowed you to travel the world, haven't they?
oh yes but not the world not enough of the world and uh every year i say well this year i'm going to go oh god look at my blank i don't know why i never brought a good blank but see here's that wonderful blank your wife was reading yeah yeah i brought that you see oh no this is about something else but these are pieces of paper see i've learned to
I have things I can put in, but I was so fascinated.
That's a great book.
He was quite a reader as well, you see.
He taught himself Italian so he could illustrate Dante.
But his wife was illiterate.
He never taught her to read and write.
That's interesting, isn't it?
Now, Tolstoy wanted his wife to read so she could be his secretary and his bookkeeper.
Well, yes, but she was a reader anyway.
She was quite an accomplished woman.
Well, she was educated.
She was educated.
And although she was very young, the aristocracy did give their daughters some education.
I'd love to talk with you about Tolstoy sometime.
I love Tolstoy.
Ah, and a lot of the other writers I liked.
Next trip, next time I come out.
This is a wonderful writer.
Eduardo, yes, yes, yes.
You may not know.
And I love James Kelman, the Scotch guy.
I interviewed him.
You did?
I met him and interviewed him.
Fascinating.
Well, I do a weekly literary column, you know.
I didn't know that.
Well, it's not out here.
And so how was he?
Wonderful.
I'll send you the story.
I'd love to read it.
He wrote me a fan letter when I was published in Britain years ago.